---
layout: post
title:      "Song builder or character builder ?"
date:       2020-10-19 21:01:09 +0000
permalink:  song_builder_or_character_builder
---


Coming from building the Sinatra project which was my favorite so far this project was extremely tough. It took me longer than normal to rap my head around the concepts and actually get to building the project. I ran into so many obstacles from associations, users, attributes.You name it I struggled with it.Rails was presented as this magical tool which in many ways it was; it was just a lot harder to understand the new syntax of concepts that we had already learned. The project requirements also really stretched me as a developer I can say I learned a lot though. My biggest dtruggle with this project was mapping out the routes and hoe they fit in with the controller, views and new syntax I overcame that by going back to the labs and really understanding object realational mapping. This application is designed to be a virtual songwriting book where artists, musicians and songwriters like myself can come and write songs in one organized place and keep track of the songs we have written whether released or unreleased.

One thing I really did appreciate about rails was the generator. It made creating files, editing migrations and building in the mvc so much easier. In rails a lot of the errors in rails are more specific and readable which I genuinely appreciated.I also enjoyed implementing the third-party SignUp/Login with OmniAuth. I choose to give the User the option to login github . I personally really loved this feature because it's extremely applicable. Almost everyday I interact with websites that have a third party sign in so to be able to implement one in my own project was extremely rewarding and satisfying for me. I genuinely dislike creating new passwords for every website  I choose to interact with. Using rails C and byebug were the coolest takeaways for this project. They really show me how to debug and test my code which I normally have more trouble than most with.  I learn so much about writing dry code and helper method from this project its crazy.  With a project this large writing dry code and not being edndant is more important than ever. The  fact that almost everytime I was writing redundant code I knew and started to create helper method or I was looking for ways to abstract it out , really showed me that I am becoming a better develper overall!  

Coding as a whole and the concepts  are so hard for me and it takes so much learning and so much extra time to get things done. But its so much more rewarding for me when I am able to get a project done because I know  I struggled to get it done . Each time I build a lab or project I am so proud of myself and it shows me that even though I may not be the best developer yet and I still need alot of help that I am atleast willing to try and get things done and even fail sometimes.  The failures and errors ( Pun intended )   help me each time to get better abd better understand the concepts. All in all this rails project was one of the hardest projects and mental hurdles academically that I have ever faced but it taught me so much and made me a better developer.

